---
layout: post
title: "Cross-domain AJAX served from CDN"
date: 2012-05-19 16:58
comments: true
author: Alexander Todorov
categories: ['Amazon', 'CloudFront', 'CDN', 'AJAX', 'JSONP']
---

This week Amazon [announced](http://aws.typepad.com/aws/2012/05/amazon-cloudfront-support-for-dynamic-content.html)
support for dynamic content in their CDN solution [*Amazon CloudFront*](http://aws.amazon.com/cloudfront/).
The announce coincided with my efforts to migrate more pieces of *Monupco*'s [website](http://www.monupco.com) to *CloudFront*.

In this article I will not talk about hosting static files on CDN. This is easy and I've already written
about it [here](/2012/04/17/using-openshift-as-amazon-cloudfront-origin-server/). I will show how to
cache AJAX(JSONP actually) responses and serve them directly from *Amazon CloudFront*.

Background
----------

For those if you who may not be familiar (are there any) CDN stands for
[Content Delivery Network](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Content_delivery_network). In short
this employs numerous servers with identical content. The requests from the browser are served
from the location which gives best performance for the user. This is used by all major websites
to speed-up static content like images, video, CSS and JavaScript files.

AJAX means [Asynchronous JavaScript and XML](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ajax_%28programming%29).
This is what Google uses to create dynamic user interface which doesn't require to reload the page.

Architecture
------------

*Monupco* has two web interfaces. The primary one is a static HTML website
which employs JavaScript for the dynamic areas. It is hosted on the monupco.com domain.
The other one is powered by Django and provides the same interface plus the
[applications dashboard](https://monupco-otb.rhcloud.com/applications/mine/) and several API functions
which don't have a visible user interface. This is under the *.rhcloud.com domain b/c it is hosted on
[*OpenShift*](http://openshift.redhat.com).

The present state of the website is the result of rapid development using conventional methods - 
HTML templates and server-side processing. This is migrating to modern web technology like static HTML
and JavaScript while the server side will remain pure API service.

For this migration to happen I need the HTML pages at monupco.com to execute JavaScript and load information
which comes from the rhcloud.com domain. Unfortunately this is not easily doable with AJAX because
of the [Same origin policy](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Same_origin_policy) in browsers.

I'm using the [*Dojo Toolkit*](http://dojotoolkit.org/) JavaScript framework which has a solution.
It's called [JSONP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSONP). Here's how it works:


        monupco.com -- JSONP request --> abc.rhcloud.com --v
            ^                                              |
            |                                              |
        JavaScript processing                              |
            |                                              |
            +------------------ JSONP response ------------+

This is pretty standard configuration for a web service.

Going to the clouds
-------------------

The way *Dojo* implements JSONP is through the
[dojo.io.script](http://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.7/dojo/io/script.html) module.
It works by appending a query string parameter of the form *?callback=funcName* which the server uses
to generate the JSONP response. This callback name is dynamically generated by *Dojo* based on the order
in which your call to *dojo.io.script* is executed.

Until recently *Amazon CloudFront* ignored all query string parameters when requesting the content from
the origin server. Without the query string it was not possible to generate the JSONP response.
Luckily Amazon resolved the issue only one day after I asked about it on their forums.

Now *Amazon CloudFront* will use the URL path and the query string parameters to identify the objects in cache.
To enable this edit the CloudFront distribution *behavior(s)* and set *Forward Query Strings* to Yes.

When a visitor of the website requests the data *Amazon CloudFront* will use exactly the same url path and query strings
to fetch the content from the origin server. All that I had to do is switch the domain of the JSONP service
to point to the cloudfront.net domain. It became like this:

                                                            | Everything on this side is handled by Amazon.
                                                            | No code required!
                                                            |
        monupco.com -- JSONP request --> xyz.cloudfront.net -- JSONP request if cache miss --> abc.rhcloud.com --v
            ^                              |                ^                                                    |
            |                              |                |                                                    |
        JavaScript processing              |                +---------- JSONP response --------------------------+
            |                              |
            +---- cached JSONP response ---+


As you can see the website structure and code didn't change at all. All that changed was a single domain name.


Controlling the cache
---------------------

*Amazon CloudFront* will keep the contents in cache based on the origin headers if present or the manual configuration
from the AWS Console. To work around frequent requests to the origin server it is considered best practice to set the
Expires header to a value far in the future, like 1 year.
However if the content changes you need some way to tell *CloudFront* about it. The most commonly used method is through
using different URLs to access the same content. This will cause *CloudFront* to cache the content under the new location
while keeping the old content until it expires.

*Dojo* makes this very easy:

        require(["dojo/io/script"],
            function(script) {
                    script.get({
                        url: "https://xyz.cloudfront.net/api/json/updates/1234",
                        callbackParamName: "callback",
                        content: {t: timeStamp},
                        load: function(jsonData) {
                            ....
                        },
        ....

The *content* property allows additional key/value pairs to be sent in the query string. The
*timeStamp* parameter serves only to control *Amazon CloudFront* cache. It's not processed server side.

On the server-side we have:

        response['Cache-Control'] = 'max-age=31536000'
        response['Expires'] = (datetime.now()+timedelta(seconds=31536000)).strftime('%a, %d %b %Y %H:%M:%S GMT')

Benefits
--------

There were two immediate benefits:

* Reduced page load time. Combined with serving static files from CDN this greatly improves the user experience;
* Reduced server load. Content is requested only once if it is missing from the cache and then served from CloudFront.
The server isn't so busy serving content so it can be used to do more computations or simply reduce the bill.

The presented method works well for *Monupco* because of two things:

* The content which *Monupco* serves usually doesn't change at all once made public. In rare occasions, for example an error
has been published, we have to regenerate new content and publish it under the same URL.
* Before content is made public it is inspected for errors and this also preseeds the cache.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[*Alexander Todorov*](http://about.me/atodorov) is Monupco's founder and lead developer!

For an insight of available updates to your open source components give
Monupco a [try](https://monupco-otb.rhcloud.com/applications/mine/)!
